# Football Data Visualization and Analysis in R

This repository contains various R scripts for data visualization and analysis.

## Scripts

- [xG Trendline.R](xG_Trendline.R): This script generates a trendline plot for Manchester United's expected goals (xG).
- [waffle.R](waffle.R): This script generates a waffle chart.
- [Finishing Variance Line.R](Finishing_Variance_Line.R): This script generates a plot showing Jamie Vardy's finishing variance.
- [Dumbell Chart.R](Dumbell_Chart.R): This script generates a dumbbell chart.
- [Bump Chart.R](Bump_Chart.R): This script generates a bump chart.
- [Alluvial Plot.R](Alluvial.R): This script generates an alluvial plot.
- [Comet.R](Comet.R): This script generates a comet plot.
- [Squad Composition.R](Squad_Composition.R): This script generates a plot showing squad composition.
- [StackedBar.R](StackedBar.R): This script generates a stacked bar chart for Ligue 1 xG performance by time period.
- [Alluvial Plot.R](Alluvial.R): This script generates an alluvial plot.
- [Diamond Scaerplot.R](Diamond_Scatterplot.R): This script generates a diamond scatterplot.
- [app.R](app.R): This is a Shiny application that allows you to select and view the plots generated by the other scripts in this repository.

## Usage

To run the scripts, you will need to have R installed on your machine. You can then run the scripts using an R interpreter.

For the Shiny application, you will need to have the Shiny library installed in R. You can then run the application using the command `shiny::runApp()` in the R console.

## GitHub link

You can find the repository at [Football_analysis](https://github.com/Akhil-blanc/Football_analysis).

## Dependencies

These scripts depend on several R packages, including`tidyverse`      `worldfootballR` `ggalluvial`     `extrafont`     
`ggtext`         `MetBrewer`      `shiny`          `ggplot2`       
`ggalt`          `ggforce`        `ggrepel`        `grid`
`ggplotify`      `cowplot`        `ggshakeR`       `StatsBombR`
`dplyr`          `RcppRoll`       `devtools`       `understatr`
`glue`           `ggsoccer`       `TTR`            `patchwork`
`hexbin`         `shinyWidgets`   `ggbraid`        `ggpubr`        
`future`         `purrr`          `plotly`         `viridis`
`waffle`. Please ensure these packages are installed before running the scripts.
#### For general packages:
```
install.packages("<package_name>")
```

#### For ggbraid and other packages that show an error - install from github:

```
install.packages("remotes")
```
```
remotes::install_github("nsgrantham/ggbraid")
```

## Data Sources
The data used in these scripts is sourced from Understat and FBref via StatsBomb, and WorldFootballR.
- The data is saved as csv files in the [data](data) directory.
- [scrape_data.R](scrape_data.R) is an example file demonstrating data scraping.

## Team members
Project done by:
- Pechetti Sai Akhil (B21AI025)
- Prashant Tandon (B21AI053)

## License
- Original work by: [harshkrishna17](https://github.com/harshkrishna17)
- We've adapted and aggregated to make a singular app.
